		     GCompris / I Have Understood
		      GCompris is a GNU package

GCompris is an educationnal game for children starting at 3.
It uses GTK and the Gnome Libraries (especially the gnome canvas),
the libxml and gtk-pixbuf.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
			 GCompris MOTIVATION

Big Issue:
  Today Linux does not have a lot of usefull educational tools for children.
  When they exist, they are hard to find and request the teacher/parent to
  manage a lot of independant small tools.


Big Goal:
  Build an educationnal game suite all accessible from a single user interface.
  GCompris provides a simple to use user interface that makes it easy select
  appropriate boards. 

How:
  GCompris is designed in a way that it is easy to add new boards to it.
  Today a board is called with the root canvas of the main window, and then 
  the board is free to implement the game scheme it wants.
  The status bar is a common facility provided to the board.

  To make GCompris a powerfull tool for all its users, the teachers,
  the children but also the developers, GCompris implements a plugin system
  where each board is an independant plugin. Then if the board requires it,
  the data set for this board is defined in an XML file.

  GCompris will provide a board editor to let teacher/educator easily add
  boards to GCompris.

About You:
  Yes you can help by:
  Creating new boards.
  Providing fancy graphics to incorporate as icons or backgrounds.
  Translate GCompris.
  Just giving your ideas.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           NOTE TO TRANSLATORS

Gcompris is a little bit special in terms of translation needs. The best is done
to bring back everything to .po files but it is not exaustive.

To complete the translation, you must also provide:

A set of file in boards/wordsgame/wordslevelx.yy
Where x is the level or max and yy your target locale.
note that these words must be choosen to be simple in your language, don't necessary
translate the english. Also, it is important to make sure that these words can be 
written with your keyboard in one key (no alt gr stuff or compose key).

A complete voice translation in boards/sounds/yy
It is best to choose somebody that speaks and articulate well your language.
What is great with gcompris is that you can use it to practice a foreign language.
